README.md, before:

# Toguru - トグル

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AutoScout24/toguru.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AutoScout24/toguru)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/AutoScout24/toguru/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/AutoScout24/toguru?branch=master)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/as24/toguru.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/as24/toguru/)

The toggle guru (Japanese for toggle).

<!-- installing doctoc: https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc#installation -->
<!-- tocdoc command: doctoc README.md --maxlevel 3 -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->

- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Management API](#management-api)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
  - [Error Handling](#error-handling)
  - [Getting the Audit Log](#getting-the-audit-log)
  - [Getting the current Toggle State](#getting-the-current-toggle-state)
  - [Creating a Toggle](#creating-a-toggle)
  - [Deleting a Toggle](#deleting-a-toggle)
  - [Getting Toggle Data](#getting-toggle-data)
  - [Change Toggle Rollout Percentage](#change-toggle-rollout-percentage)
  - [Disabling a Toggle](#disabling-a-toggle)
- [Related projects](#related-projects)
- [License](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Contributing

See [contribution documentation](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Management API

The management API is exposed via a REST interface over http(s).

### Authentication

All management API endpoints requires authentication with an api key. For this,
provide host header with a valid api key in your http requests:

```
Authorization: api-key [your-api-key]
```

with curl, the syntax to add the proper header is

```
curl -H "Authorization: api-key ???" https://your-endpoint.example.com/auditlog
```

### Error Handling

The management API tries to help on how to proceed when a problem occurs (due to
e.g. lack of authentication or a malformed request).  

### Getting the Audit Log

Http method and route: `GET /auditlog`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
[
  { "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
    "event": "toggle created",
    "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
    "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
    "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" },
    "meta": {
      "time": "2016-12-20T15:05:46.705Z",
      "epoch": 1482246346705,
      "user": "toguru-team"
    }
  }
]
```

### Getting the current Toggle State

This endpoint is used by the Toguru clients to retrieve the current state of all
toggles.

Http method and route: `GET /togglestate`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
[
  { "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
    "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" },
    "rolloutPercentage":20
  }
]
```

### Creating a Toggle

Http method and route: `POST /toggle`

Payload format:
```
{ "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" }
}
```

All fields are mandatory. The JSON object under tags may have arbitrary fields,
and must have string fields only. An empty tags map is allowed.

Response format:
```
{ "status":"Ok", "id": "toguru-demo-toggle" }
```

curl example:
```
curl -XPOST https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle \
  -d '{"name":"Toguru demo toggle","description":"Toguru demo toggle","tags":{"team":"Toguru team"}}'
```

### Deleting a Toggle

Http method and route: `DELETE /toggle/:id`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XDELETE https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle
```

### Getting Toggle Data

Http method and route: `GET /toggle/:id`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
  "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "tags": { "team": "Toguru team"} }
```

curl example:
```
curl https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle
```

### Change Toggle Rollout Percentage

Http method and route: `PUT /toggle/:id/globalrollout`

Payload format:
```
{ "percentage": 20 }
```

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XPUT https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle/globalrollout \
  -d '{"percentage":20}'
```

### Disabling a Toggle

Http method and route: `DELETE /toggle/:id/globalrollout`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XDELETE https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle/globalrollout
```


## Related projects

* [AutoScout24/toguru-scala-client](https://github.com/AutoScout24/toguru-scala-client): Scala client for this toggling service

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).

Commit message:

Toggle state initialization (#47)
- server waits for toggle state initialization on startup
- health check fails until initialization is completed
- behavior can be controlled with `toggleState.initializeOnStartup`
- added separate info for toggle state endpoint to health check
- initialization behavior is ultimately controlled by ToggleStateActor

README.md, after:

# Toguru - トグル

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/AutoScout24/toguru.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/AutoScout24/toguru)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/AutoScout24/toguru/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/AutoScout24/toguru?branch=master)
[![Docker Pulls](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/as24/toguru.svg)](https://hub.docker.com/r/as24/toguru/)

The toggle guru (Japanese for toggle).

<!-- installing doctoc: https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc#installation -->
<!-- tocdoc command: doctoc README.md --maxlevel 3 -->
<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Management API](#management-api)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
  - [Error Handling](#error-handling)
  - [Getting the Audit Log](#getting-the-audit-log)
  - [Getting the current Toggle State](#getting-the-current-toggle-state)
  - [Creating a Toggle](#creating-a-toggle)
  - [Deleting a Toggle](#deleting-a-toggle)
  - [Getting Toggle Data](#getting-toggle-data)
  - [Change Toggle Rollout Percentage](#change-toggle-rollout-percentage)
  - [Disabling a Toggle](#disabling-a-toggle)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Togglestate Endpoint Initialization](#togglestate-endpoint-initialization)
- [Related projects](#related-projects)
- [License](#license)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome!

See [contribution documentation](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Management API

The management API is exposed via a REST interface over http(s).

### Authentication

All management API endpoints requires authentication with an api key. For this,
provide host header with a valid api key in your http requests:

```
Authorization: api-key [your-api-key]
```

with curl, the syntax to add the proper header is

```
curl -H "Authorization: api-key ???" https://your-endpoint.example.com/auditlog
```

### Error Handling

The management API tries to help on how to proceed when a problem occurs (due to
e.g. lack of authentication or a malformed request).  

### Getting the Audit Log

Http method and route: `GET /auditlog`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
[
  { "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
    "event": "toggle created",
    "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
    "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
    "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" },
    "meta": {
      "time": "2016-12-20T15:05:46.705Z",
      "epoch": 1482246346705,
      "user": "toguru-team"
    }
  }
]
```

### Getting the current Toggle State

This endpoint is used by the Toguru clients to retrieve the current state of all
toggles.

Http method and route: `GET /togglestate`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
[
  { "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
    "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" },
    "rolloutPercentage":20
  }
]
```

### Creating a Toggle

Http method and route: `POST /toggle`

Payload format:
```
{ "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "tags": { "team": "Toguru team" }
}
```

All fields are mandatory. The JSON object under tags may have arbitrary fields,
and must have string fields only. An empty tags map is allowed.

Response format:
```
{ "status":"Ok", "id": "toguru-demo-toggle" }
```

curl example:
```
curl -XPOST https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle \
  -d '{"name":"Toguru demo toggle","description":"Toguru demo toggle","tags":{"team":"Toguru team"}}'
```

### Deleting a Toggle

Http method and route: `DELETE /toggle/:id`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XDELETE https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle
```

### Getting Toggle Data

Http method and route: `GET /toggle/:id`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "id": "toguru-demo-toggle",
  "name": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "description": "Toguru demo toggle",
  "tags": { "team": "Toguru team"} }
```

curl example:
```
curl https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle
```

### Change Toggle Rollout Percentage

Http method and route: `PUT /toggle/:id/globalrollout`

Payload format:
```
{ "percentage": 20 }
```

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XPUT https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle/globalrollout \
  -d '{"percentage":20}'
```

### Disabling a Toggle

Http method and route: `DELETE /toggle/:id/globalrollout`

Payload format: no payload required

Response format:
```
{ "status": "Ok"}
```

curl example:
```
curl -XDELETE https://your-endpoint.example.com/toggle/toguru-demo-toggle/globalrollout
```

## Configuration

### Togglestate Endpoint Initialization 

When starting a toguru server, the toggle state endpoint will initially return
an outdated toggle state. This is because the ToggleState actor needs to
replay all toggle state changes before it is serving the recent toggle state.

In order to prevent serving this stale state, the configuration setting
`toggleState.initializeOnStartup` is set to `true` by default. This setting 
also causes the health check to fail until the toggle state endpoint is fully
initialized.

To switch both behaviours off, set `toggleState.initializeOnStartup` to `false`.

## Related projects

* [AutoScout24/toguru-scala-client](https://github.com/AutoScout24/toguru-scala-client): Scala client for this toggling service

## License

See the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).
